      
      
      
      
      
      
      
One Barbarian Boy
by Eleanor Konik
      
      I found my wayward empath at a playground just outside the funeral home, a faint smile 
on her pale lips. She’d always been small, but now she looked wasted, hollow. I worried the 
breeze would blow her away.  
      The wooden picnic table was too small for my frame, but I sat down anyway, contorting 
the genetically engineered height of a Peacekeeper into something less threatening. “Eisha.” 
      She didn’t so much as twitch at my presence, which didn’t surprise me. Her sepia eyes 
followed a tearstained teenaged girl kicking her feet into the dirt as she listlessly sat on the 
swing. She’d always been able to fugue deeper than any other empaths in the program. 
      “Eisha!” 
      Nothing.
      Reluctantly, I slapped her cheek. The sharp impact cut her link with the teenager and 
drew the attention of a nearby man in funeral black. He leapt up, brows heavy with outrage, but 
stumbled back when I shifted to expose the golden lion curled across my uniform. 
      It wouldn’t hold him back for long. Not after last week. Not with this many mourners 
overflowing into the streets. 
      I had to get Eisha out of here before the riots started. 
      Eisha refocused, eyes locking onto mine with dead intensity before betrayal sparked into 
fury. She banked it with a single, even breath. No other empath had enough control over their 
own apathy to induce it. 
      I wished I’d never taught her the trick. 
      “You can’t hide every time something goes wrong. That’s not what I trained you for.” 
My voice turned pleading. “Damn it, we have work to do.” 
      A bitter cackle slashed out from between the placid cracks of ennui. “Jealous, Jack?”
      The hell of it was, I was, a little. When she linked with me, the force of her regard shined 
like the sun. I craved it almost as much as I missed her. Her sparking humor, the clever way she 
bartered in the markets, the brave smile she got before a jump into one of the Preserves. 
      But I ignored the petty accusation because this wasn’t about me. I’d still be sitting here if 
I hated her, because the technocracy needed her. This was about the program and what would 
happen if she didn’t return. The wars we wouldn’t avert.
      “Eisha.” The talisman of her name was a futile habit, but I used it anyway. “When was 
the last time you ate? You’re wasting away.”
      “It’ll be my funeral,” she said with a twisted, saccharine smile. “Isn’t that what you said 
when I tried to help Taki?” 
      As a handler, I had plenty of practice suppressing guilt, but memories bubbled up 
anyway. Algorithms reporting a small town in the Andean Preserve as a potential revolt-point. 
The satisfaction of establishing Eisha as a caretaker for local orphans. For the first time, she’d 
loved using her gifts. 
      Identifying emotionally damaged children, not rebels, had distracted her from her 
purpose. 
      She blamed herself, though the analysts’ reports had underestimated the violence 
bubbling under the local strand of rebel sentiment. The guns erupted earlier than expected. 
Hostages, a media standoff. Taki caught in the middle of a conflict no empath should have been 
present to feel. 
      “I can’t give you much longer,” I told her. “Projections say the burial will turn riot.” 
      “I’m not going back, Jack. You can’t force me.” 
      “I won’t let you throw your life away to mourn one barbarian boy.” I picked her up and 
carried her to the helicopter. 
      She didn’t resist. 
      She never did anything again, no matter what we put in her IV. 
      It was all such a waste. 
       
Konik / Barbarian Boy / 1

Christina Colvin (she/her)		about 600 words
8012 Elizabeth Rd
Pasadena, MD 21122
(443) 750-4395
ek@eleanorkonik.com

